source/docs/casper/resources/build-on-casper/casper-open-source-software.md, before:

# Ecosystem Open-Source Software

This page lists open-source software available within the Casper ecosystem. Developers and the community may use the listed software as a basis for new projects and solutions.

Name | Description | Author | Language | License | Last Update Date | Type
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
[Basic Yield Farm](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-StakingRewards) | Staking Rewards | Rengo Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-24 | Staking
[Blockcerts on Casper](https://github.com/amazanzan/casper-cert-issuer) | Issues Blockcerts using the Bitcoin, Ethereum, or Casper blockchain | amazanzan | Python | MIT license | 2022-07-22 | Tokens
[BlockMatcher](https://blockmatcher.ledgerleap.com/) [Frontend](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/blockmatcher-frontend) [Backend](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/blockmatcher-backend) | Private Trade (OTC) Platform for Compliant Brokers. This system allows the creation of OTC token deals, matching buyers and sellers together. The admin, or broker, can then clear them in batches. | LedgerLeap | JavaScript-PHP | MIT license | 2022-01-15 | Exchange
[Camel Casper](https://github.com/abahmanem/camel-casper) | [Apache Camel](https://camel.apache.org/) connector for the Casper Blockchain | M.Abahmane | Java | MIT license | 2022-03-26 | Tools
[Casper .NET SDK](https://github.com/make-software/casper-net-sdk) | Casper .NET Client SDK to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC. | MAKE Software | .NET | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-04-19 | Client SDK
[Casper Analytics App](https://github.com/caspercommunityio/casper-analytics-app) | Casper Analytics App. Built with Ionic. Easily exportable as iOS and Andriod App | caspercommunity.io | PHP | MIT license | 2022-01-20 | Tools
[Casper C++ SDK](https://github.com/caspercppsdk/casper-cpp-sdk) | C++ library to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC | Yusuf Keten | C++ | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-13 | Client SDK
[Casper Calculator](https://github.com/nad128668/casper-calculator) | Casper Earnings Calculator and Node Monitor | Charles Nguyen | JavaScript | MIT license | 2021-09-26 | Tools
[Casper Contract Upgrade](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/contract-upgrade-example) | Example contract to demonstrate the general way of upgrading a contract and the necessary steps | Casper Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-21 | Example Contracts
[Casper Dart SDK](https://github.com/cdolaz/casper_dart_sdk) | Casper Dart SDK is for interacting with the Casper Blockchain using RPC. | Temiltas | Dart | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-26 | Client SDK
[Friendly Market's Casper variant of ERC20](https://github.com/FriendlyMarket/casper-erc20) | Implementation of the ERC20 standard for Casper networks | Friendly Market | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-10 | Tokens
[Casper Go SDK](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-golang-sdk) | Casper Go SDK | Yaroslav Panasenko | Go | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-01-31 | Client SDK
[Casper Hello World Contract](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/hello-world) | This example demonstrates the session code that accepts a message string and stores it in the calling account under the special_value NamedKey | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-07-13 | Example contracts
[Casper JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk) | Casper Client JavaScript SDK | Casper Labs | TypeScript-JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-13 | Client SDK
[Casper Kotlin SDK](https://github.com/tqhuy2018/Casper-Kotlin-sdk) | Casper Kotlin Client SDK to interact with a Casper network. | tqhuy2018 | Kotlin | MIT license | 2022-07-21 | Client SDK
[Casper Metrics](https://github.com/a3mc/Casper-Metrics) | Casper Metrics - fast blockchain crawler, API, and analysis tool | A3MC | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-09-09 | Tools
[Casper NCTL Docker](https://github.com/make-software/casper-nctl-docker) | A Docker container that runs Casper NCTL as a service | MAKE Software | Shell | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-03-17 | Tools
[Casper Node-RED](https://github.com/caspercommunityio/node-red-contrib-casper) | Nodes to communicate with the Casper's Blockchain using node-red | caspercommunity.io | JavaScript | MIT license | 2022-02-08 | Tools
[Casper Objective-C SDK](https://github.com/tqhuy2018/Casper-ObjectiveC-sdk) | Casper Objective-C SDK is for interacting with the Casper Blockchain using RPC. | hienbui9999 | Objective-C | MIT license | 2022-06-18 | Client SDK
[Casper PHP SDK](https://github.com/make-software/casper-php-sdk) | PHP SDK to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC. The PHP SDK allows developers to interact with a Casper network using PHP | MAKE Software | PHP | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-29 | Client SDK
[Casper Ruby Client SDK](https://github.com/saitgulmez/casper-ruby-sdk) | Ruby SDK to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC. | Sait Gulmez | Ruby | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-03-08 | Client SDK
[Casper Scala SDK](https://github.com/abahmanem/casper-scala-sdk) | Casper Scala client SDK  to interact with the Casper  Network nodes via RPC | M.Abahmane | Scala | MIT license | 2022-03-23 | Client SDK
[Casper Wallet](https://www.casperwallet.io/) | A browser wallet for the Casper Network | MAKE Software | TypeScript-JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2023-04-12 | Wallet
[Casper SSI Web App](https://github.com/credentia-network/casper-ssi-demo) | Casper SSI Framework in the form of a demo web application. | Credentia Network | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-06-29 | Tools
[Casper Storage](https://github.com/CasperDash/casper-storage) | Casper storage - HD wallets | CasperDash | TypeScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-14 | Wallet
[Casper Swift SDK](https://github.com/hienbui9999/CasperSDKInSwift) | Casper Client SDK. Casper SDK methods implementation in Swift. | hienbui9999 | Swift | MIT license | 2022-06-08 | Client SDK
[Casper Two-Party MultiSig Contract](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/two-party-multi-sig) | This example demonstrates how to configure an account on a Casper network to require two-party multi-signature deploys. | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-04-26 | Example contracts
[Casper World](https://github.com/NodesGuru/casper-world) | Casper network status and decentralization map web application | Nodes Guru | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-01-26 | Blockchain Explorer
[CasperDash Wallet](https://github.com/CasperDash/casperdash-client) | A non-custodial wallet for the Casper blockchain | CasperDash | JavaScript | MIT license | 2022-09-14 | Wallet
[CasperFYRE API](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/casperfyre-frontend) | Dispensory API interface for Casper Mainnet | LedgerLeap | JavaScript-PHP | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-06 | Tools
[CasperHolders](https://github.com/casperholders/casperholdersfront) | First 3rd party UI to interact with Casper Blockchain | CasperHolders | JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-23 | Blockchain Explorer
[CasperSign](https://github.com/chronologic/caspersign-validator-ui) | The First Casper-Native Dapp. CasperSign Allows Users to Sign Contracts Confidentially & Securely on the Casper Blockchain | ChronoLogic and Digital Strategies | TypeScript | NA | 2022-08-31 | dApp
[CEP-78 Enhanced NFT Standard](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/cep-78-enhanced-nft) | Standard Contract Generator for NFTs | Casper Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-23 | NFT
[Clearest Stake](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/cleareststake-frontend) | Staking Asset Manager for Node operators and groups | LedgerLeap | PHP | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-04-02 | DeFi
[DAO Contracts](https://github.com/make-software/dao-contracts) | Smart Contracts for the MVPR On-Chain Governance System on Casper | MAKE Software | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-07-17 | DAO
[DHF PAY](https://github.com/DHFinance/dhf-pay-front) | The crypto currency payment gateway on the CSPR blockchain | DHFinance | TypeScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-28 | Payments
[DLN DAO](https://github.com/dlndao/start/) | DLN DAO | AlphaFin | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-09-10 | DAO
[DotOracle](https://github.com/dotoracle/bridge-ui) | Realtime decentralized Oracle and Cross-chain liquidity network for EVM, non-EVM Casper, and L2 blockchains. | DotOracle Network | TypeScript | NA | 2022-09-26 | Bridge
[Dragon’s Lair Style Staking](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-Dragonlair) | Lair Style Staking | Rengo Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-24 | Staking
[Subscription Billing](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-EIP1337) | ERC-1337 subscription billing | Rengo Labs | Rust | MIT license | 2022-04-07 | Tokens
[Casper Fungible Token](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/erc20) | Implementation of Fungible Tokens for Casper networks | Casper Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-01 | Tokens
[Advanced Fungible Token](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-ERC777) | ERC-777 + 1820 Advanced Fungible Token with Callbacks & Self Identification | Rengo Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-16 | Tokens
[Helper Bot](https://github.com/a3mc/helperbot) | Helper bot for improving DevDao VAs productivity | A3MC | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-08-19 | Tools
[Java SDK](https://github.com/casper-network/casper-java-sdk) | Casper Client Java SDK | SyntiFi | Java | Apache-2.0 license | 2021-04-20 | Client SDK
[KYC Proxy Contact](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/kyc-proxy-contract) | This is a proxy contract to check if an account is KYC approved through registered providers (KYC Contracts) | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-07-01 | Example contracts
[LiquidNFT](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-LiquidNFT) | NFT Collateralized Loans | Rengo Labs | JavaScript | GNU General Public License v3.0 | 2022-09-15 | NFT
[Payment Example Contract](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/payment-example) | This example demonstrates the usage of purses to transfer motes inside a contract | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-06-22 | Example contracts
[ServicesDAO](https://github.com/EKON-YAZILIM/ServicesDAO) | The ServicesDAO portal provides a platform for the service DAOs which provide services in a decentralized manner through a modular implementation of MVPR. | Ekon Yazilim | HTML-CSS-C# | MIT license | 2022-09-13 | DAO
[Uniswap DemoApp](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-Uniswap-DemoApp) | Uniswap UI + Contracts | Rengo Labs | JavaScript | GPL-3.0 license | 2022-09-15 | DeFi
[Verified Impact NFT](https://github.com/AdelElMessiry/Verified-Impact-NFTs) | An NFT platform dedicated to impact causes with verification of the beneficiaries | AlphaFin | JavaScript-Rust | MIT license | 2022-07-08 | NFT

Commit message:

Added Casper Event Standard (CES) libraries

source/docs/casper/resources/build-on-casper/casper-open-source-software.md, after:

# Ecosystem Open-Source Software

This page lists open-source software available within the Casper ecosystem. Developers and the community may use the listed software as a basis for new projects and solutions.

Name | Description | Author | Language | License | Last Update Date | Type
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
[Basic Yield Farm](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-StakingRewards) | Staking Rewards | Rengo Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-24 | Staking
[Blockcerts on Casper](https://github.com/amazanzan/casper-cert-issuer) | Issues Blockcerts using the Bitcoin, Ethereum, or Casper blockchain | amazanzan | Python | MIT license | 2022-07-22 | Tokens
[BlockMatcher](https://blockmatcher.ledgerleap.com/) [Frontend](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/blockmatcher-frontend) [Backend](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/blockmatcher-backend) | Private Trade (OTC) Platform for Compliant Brokers. This system allows the creation of OTC token deals, matching buyers and sellers together. The admin, or broker, can then clear them in batches. | LedgerLeap | JavaScript-PHP | MIT license | 2022-01-15 | Exchange
[Camel Casper](https://github.com/abahmanem/camel-casper) | [Apache Camel](https://camel.apache.org/) connector for the Casper Blockchain | M.Abahmane | Java | MIT license | 2022-03-26 | Tools
[Casper .NET SDK](https://github.com/make-software/casper-net-sdk) | Casper .NET Client SDK to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC. | MAKE Software | .NET | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-04-19 | Client SDK
[Casper Analytics App](https://github.com/caspercommunityio/casper-analytics-app) | Casper Analytics App. Built with Ionic. Easily exportable as iOS and Andriod App | caspercommunity.io | PHP | MIT license | 2022-01-20 | Tools
[Casper C++ SDK](https://github.com/caspercppsdk/casper-cpp-sdk) | C++ library to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC | Yusuf Keten | C++ | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-13 | Client SDK
[Casper Calculator](https://github.com/nad128668/casper-calculator) | Casper Earnings Calculator and Node Monitor | Charles Nguyen | JavaScript | MIT license | 2021-09-26 | Tools
[Casper Contract Upgrade](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/contract-upgrade-example) | Example contract to demonstrate the general way of upgrading a contract and the necessary steps | Casper Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-21 | Example Contracts
[Casper Dart SDK](https://github.com/cdolaz/casper_dart_sdk) | Casper Dart SDK is for interacting with the Casper Blockchain using RPC. | Temiltas | Dart | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-26 | Client SDK
[Friendly Market's Casper variant of ERC20](https://github.com/FriendlyMarket/casper-erc20) | Implementation of the ERC20 standard for Casper networks | Friendly Market | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-10 | Tokens
[Casper Go SDK](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-golang-sdk) | Casper Go SDK | Yaroslav Panasenko | Go | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-01-31 | Client SDK
[Casper Hello World Contract](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/hello-world) | This example demonstrates the session code that accepts a message string and stores it in the calling account under the special_value NamedKey | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-07-13 | Example contracts
[Casper JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk) | Casper Client JavaScript SDK | Casper Labs | TypeScript-JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-13 | Client SDK
[Casper Kotlin SDK](https://github.com/tqhuy2018/Casper-Kotlin-sdk) | Casper Kotlin Client SDK to interact with a Casper network. | tqhuy2018 | Kotlin | MIT license | 2022-07-21 | Client SDK
[Casper Metrics](https://github.com/a3mc/Casper-Metrics) | Casper Metrics - fast blockchain crawler, API, and analysis tool | A3MC | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-09-09 | Tools
[Casper NCTL Docker](https://github.com/make-software/casper-nctl-docker) | A Docker container that runs Casper NCTL as a service | MAKE Software | Shell | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-03-17 | Tools
[Casper Node-RED](https://github.com/caspercommunityio/node-red-contrib-casper) | Nodes to communicate with the Casper's Blockchain using node-red | caspercommunity.io | JavaScript | MIT license | 2022-02-08 | Tools
[Casper Objective-C SDK](https://github.com/tqhuy2018/Casper-ObjectiveC-sdk) | Casper Objective-C SDK is for interacting with the Casper Blockchain using RPC. | hienbui9999 | Objective-C | MIT license | 2022-06-18 | Client SDK
[Casper PHP SDK](https://github.com/make-software/casper-php-sdk) | PHP SDK to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC. The PHP SDK allows developers to interact with a Casper network using PHP | MAKE Software | PHP | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-29 | Client SDK
[Casper Ruby Client SDK](https://github.com/saitgulmez/casper-ruby-sdk) | Ruby SDK to interact with Casper network nodes via RPC. | Sait Gulmez | Ruby | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-03-08 | Client SDK
[Casper Scala SDK](https://github.com/abahmanem/casper-scala-sdk) | Casper Scala client SDK  to interact with the Casper  Network nodes via RPC | M.Abahmane | Scala | MIT license | 2022-03-23 | Client SDK
[Casper Wallet](https://www.casperwallet.io/) | A browser wallet for the Casper Network | MAKE Software | TypeScript-JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2023-04-12 | Wallet
[Casper SSI Web App](https://github.com/credentia-network/casper-ssi-demo) | Casper SSI Framework in the form of a demo web application. | Credentia Network | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-06-29 | Tools
[Casper Storage](https://github.com/CasperDash/casper-storage) | Casper storage - HD wallets | CasperDash | TypeScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-14 | Wallet
[Casper Swift SDK](https://github.com/hienbui9999/CasperSDKInSwift) | Casper Client SDK. Casper SDK methods implementation in Swift. | hienbui9999 | Swift | MIT license | 2022-06-08 | Client SDK
[Casper Two-Party MultiSig Contract](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/two-party-multi-sig) | This example demonstrates how to configure an account on a Casper network to require two-party multi-signature deploys. | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-04-26 | Example contracts
[Casper World](https://github.com/NodesGuru/casper-world) | Casper network status and decentralization map web application | Nodes Guru | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-01-26 | Blockchain Explorer
[CasperDash Wallet](https://github.com/CasperDash/casperdash-client) | A non-custodial wallet for the Casper blockchain | CasperDash | JavaScript | MIT license | 2022-09-14 | Wallet
[CasperFYRE API](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/casperfyre-frontend) | Dispensory API interface for Casper Mainnet | LedgerLeap | JavaScript-PHP | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-06 | Tools
[CasperHolders](https://github.com/casperholders/casperholdersfront) | First 3rd party UI to interact with Casper Blockchain | CasperHolders | JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-23 | Blockchain Explorer
[CasperSign](https://github.com/chronologic/caspersign-validator-ui) | The First Casper-Native Dapp. CasperSign Allows Users to Sign Contracts Confidentially & Securely on the Casper Blockchain | ChronoLogic and Digital Strategies | TypeScript | NA | 2022-08-31 | dApp
[CEP-78 Enhanced NFT Standard](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/cep-78-enhanced-nft) | Standard Contract Generator for NFTs | Casper Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-23 | NFT
[CES Rust Event Emitter](https://github.com/make-software/casper-event-standard) | Rust library for smart contracts that emits contract-level events that follow the Casper Event Standard (CES) | MAKE Software | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2023-05-11 | dApp library
[CES JS Parser](https://github.com/make-software/ces-js-parser) | JS library for dApp developers that parses contract-level events that follow the Casper Event Standard (CES) from deploy execution results | MAKE Software | JavaScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2023-03-27 | dApp library
[CES Go Parser](https://github.com/make-software/ces-go-parser) | Go library for dApp developers that parses contract-level events that follow the Casper Event Standard (CES) from deploy execution results | MAKE Software | Go | Apache-2.0 license | 2023-06-02 | dApp library
[Clearest Stake](https://github.com/ledgerleapllc/cleareststake-frontend) | Staking Asset Manager for Node operators and groups | LedgerLeap | PHP | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-04-02 | DeFi
[DAO Contracts](https://github.com/make-software/dao-contracts) | Smart Contracts for the MVPR On-Chain Governance System on Casper | MAKE Software | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-07-17 | DAO
[DHF PAY](https://github.com/DHFinance/dhf-pay-front) | The crypto currency payment gateway on the CSPR blockchain | DHFinance | TypeScript | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-28 | Payments
[DLN DAO](https://github.com/dlndao/start/) | DLN DAO | AlphaFin | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-09-10 | DAO
[DotOracle](https://github.com/dotoracle/bridge-ui) | Realtime decentralized Oracle and Cross-chain liquidity network for EVM, non-EVM Casper, and L2 blockchains. | DotOracle Network | TypeScript | NA | 2022-09-26 | Bridge
[Dragon’s Lair Style Staking](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-Dragonlair) | Lair Style Staking | Rengo Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-06-24 | Staking
[Subscription Billing](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-EIP1337) | ERC-1337 subscription billing | Rengo Labs | Rust | MIT license | 2022-04-07 | Tokens
[Casper Fungible Token](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/erc20) | Implementation of Fungible Tokens for Casper networks | Casper Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-09-01 | Tokens
[Advanced Fungible Token](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-ERC777) | ERC-777 + 1820 Advanced Fungible Token with Callbacks & Self Identification | Rengo Labs | Rust | Apache-2.0 license | 2022-08-16 | Tokens
[Helper Bot](https://github.com/a3mc/helperbot) | Helper bot for improving DevDao VAs productivity | A3MC | TypeScript | MIT license | 2022-08-19 | Tools
[Java SDK](https://github.com/casper-network/casper-java-sdk) | Casper Client Java SDK | SyntiFi | Java | Apache-2.0 license | 2021-04-20 | Client SDK
[KYC Proxy Contact](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/kyc-proxy-contract) | This is a proxy contract to check if an account is KYC approved through registered providers (KYC Contracts) | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-07-01 | Example contracts
[LiquidNFT](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-LiquidNFT) | NFT Collateralized Loans | Rengo Labs | JavaScript | GNU General Public License v3.0 | 2022-09-15 | NFT
[Payment Example Contract](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/payment-example) | This example demonstrates the usage of purses to transfer motes inside a contract | Casper Labs | Rust | NA | 2022-06-22 | Example contracts
[ServicesDAO](https://github.com/EKON-YAZILIM/ServicesDAO) | The ServicesDAO portal provides a platform for the service DAOs which provide services in a decentralized manner through a modular implementation of MVPR. | Ekon Yazilim | HTML-CSS-C# | MIT license | 2022-09-13 | DAO
[Uniswap DemoApp](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/CasperLabs-Uniswap-DemoApp) | Uniswap UI + Contracts | Rengo Labs | JavaScript | GPL-3.0 license | 2022-09-15 | DeFi
[Verified Impact NFT](https://github.com/AdelElMessiry/Verified-Impact-NFTs) | An NFT platform dedicated to impact causes with verification of the beneficiaries | AlphaFin | JavaScript-Rust | MIT license | 2022-07-08 | NFT
