source/docs/casper/developers/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
slug: /developers
---

# Developers

This guide is designed to support developers getting started with the development of smart contracts on the Casper blockchain in AssemblyScript or Rust. For Rust, there is a contract development kit that includes a runtime environment, reference documentation, and test framework. You can install our environment locally, create and test Smart Contracts with our Smart Contracts and Test Libraries, and use these libraries to build your own applications.

It is recommended you have prior knowledge about Unix-based operating systems, like GNU/Linux or macOS, and programming knowledge with:

-   Rust
-   AssemblyScript
-   JavaScript (optional)
-   Python (optional)

The topics on the index include present and future documentation initiatives in our roadmap and are organized so that you will be able to:

-   Understand more about the Casper Network
-   Learn how to build and operate applications on the platform
-   Learn how to set up a Casper network locally
-   Work with the contracts API to access the network's Rust resources
-   Learn how to create and test smart contracts using available libraries
-   Work with the multi-signature capability to sign transactions

The motivation for our roadmap is inspired by feedback we are receiving from your recommendations. We hope you continue to provide your feedback as you embark on this journey with us. we look forward to building a decentralized future together.

Commit message:

Create a new overview for developers

source/docs/casper/developers/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
slug: /developers
---

# Developers Overview

This section supports developers getting started with the Casper blockchain by writing dApps or smart contracts in Rust. Developers can install a local development environment with a runtime and a test framework. They can also create and test contracts with the libraries provided or use these libraries to build decentralized applications. Prior knowledge of Unix-based operating systems, like GNU/Linux, and programming knowledge with Rust, AssemblyScript, JavaScript, or Python are highly recommended.

| Topic                    | Description                         |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| [Development Prerequisites](./prerequisites.md) | Setup needed for various workflows |
| [Writing On-chain Code](./writing-onchain-code/index.md) | Writing contracts in Rust and Wasm for a Casper network |
| [Casper JSON-RPC API](./json-rpc/index.md) | Endpoints for developers wishing to interact directly with a Casper node's JSON-RPC API |
| [Building dApps](./dapps/index.md) | Useful information for dApp developers |
| [Interacting with the Blockchain Using CLI](./cli/index.md) | Using a Rust command-line client to install and call contracts; transfer, delegate, and undelegate tokens. |

The [Ecosystem Open-Source Software](../resources/casper-open-source-software.md) may provide other helpful examples. 

The motivation for the Casper Network roadmap is inspired by community feedback and recommendations. We look forward to building a decentralized future together.
