source/docs/casper/developers/prerequisites.md, before:

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Development Prerequisites

This page covers the necessary software for your Casper development environment. To develop comfortably, you should use `Linux Ubuntu 20.04` or `macOS`. Developing on Windows is not advised.

<!-- Re-enable when ready 
:::caution

Casper does not officially support `macOS`. If you encounter any problems, reach out to the community on [Telegram](https://t.me/casperblockchain) or [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Q38s3Vh).

:::
-->

## Preparing your Development Environment

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux">

### Installing `curl` {#install-curl}

```bash
sudo apt install curl
```

### Installing essential Linux packages {#install-essential}

```bash
sudo apt install build-essential
```

### Installing packages required for Casper tools {#install-adds}

```bash
sudo apt-get install pkg-config
sudo apt-get install openssl
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
```

### Installing `cargo` on Linux {#install-linux-cargo}

```bash
sudo apt install cargo
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS" label="macOS">

### Installing Xcode developer tools for macOS {#install-xcode}

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
xcode-select -p
```

### Installing `brew` {#install-brew}

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

### Installing packages required for Casper tools {#install-adds-macos}

```bash
brew install pkg-config
brew install openssl
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Installing Rust {#install-rust}

Install the [Rust programming language](https://www.rust-lang.org) if you don't already have it on your computer.

The [official Rust guide](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) recommends installing Rust by using `curl`:

```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

After your next login, the installation script automatically adds Rust to your system PATH. To start using Rust immediately, run the following command in your shell instead of restarting your terminal. The command will add Rust to your system PATH.

```bash
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
rustup --version
```

Note: You can also use `brew` on MacOS or `apt` on Linux to install Rust.

## Installing the Casper Crates {#installing-the-casper-crates}

The best and fastest way to set up a Casper Rust project is to use [cargo casper](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-casper), which is the command line tool for creating a Wasm smart contract and tests for use on a Casper network. This tool will create a simple contract, a runtime environment, and a testing framework with a simple test. _Cargo_ is a build system and package manager for Rust (much like _pip_ if you are familiar with Python, or _npm_ and _yarn_ for those familiar with Javascript). It is also possible to use this configuration in your CI/CD pipeline.

```bash
cargo install cargo-casper
```

If you run into any issues with this command and you have not recently installed Rust from scratch, please make sure to update your Rust version with this command:

```bash
rustup update
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
cargo-casper --version
```

:::note

Familiarize yourself with the essential Casper crates described [here](./essential-crates.md).

:::

## Installing the Casper Client {#install-casper-client}

The default Casper client is on [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/casper-client). This client can transmit your deploys to a Casper network.

```bash
cargo install casper-client
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
casper-client --version
```

The Casper client can print out help information, which provides an up-to-date list of supported commands. To do so, use the following command:

```bash
casper-client --help
```

You can use `help` for each command to get the most up-to-date arguments and descriptions.

```bash
casper-client <command> --help
```

### Accessing the Casper client source code {#building-client-from-source}

You can access the Casper client source code [here](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-client-rs). The `lib` directory contains the source for the client library, which may be called directly rather than through the CLI binary. The CLI app `casper-client` uses this library to implement its functionality.

If you wish to compile it, you will need to first install the nightly Rust toolchain with this command:

```bash
rustup toolchain install nightly
```

Then, compile the source code:

```bash
cargo build --release
```

You will find the `casper-client` executable in the `target/release` directory.

## Installing CMake {#install-cmake}

If you plan to compile contracts from the source code, including those provided in the [casper-node](https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node) repository, install `CMake` with the commands below.

[CMake](https://cmake.org/) is a popular build tool that we will use, and you may have it installed. If you do, make sure that you have the latest version. If you need to install or upgrade it, follow the steps below or on the [CMake website](https://cmake.org/install/). Once installed, check your version as shown below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux">

```bash
sudo apt-get -y install cmake
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS" label="macOS">

```bash
brew install cmake
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Check your version:

```bash
cmake --version
```

Sample output:

```bash
cmake version 3.20.0 (or above)

CMake suite maintained and supported by Kitware (kitware.com/cmake).
```

## Installing an IDE

We advise using an integrated development environment such as Visual Studio Code (VSC) for development. There are many IDEs available for Rust development. The most popular IDEs for Rust are the following:

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)
- [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/)
- [IntelliJ Idea](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/)
- [Vim](https://www.vim.org/)

You can use any IDE you wish. Most of our documentation and examples use Visual Studio Code (VSC), a popular IDE with many extensions that might be helpful during development.

If you are using VSC, you might find the following extensions useful:

- `CodeLLDB` – An important extension for debugging Rust code
- `rust-analyzer` – The official Rust language extension
- `Better TOML` – Support for formatting TOML files
- `crates` – An extension to help manage crates
- `Error Lens` – Enhances the programming experience by highlighting syntax errors

## Setting up a Casper Account {#setting-up-an-account}

The [Account](../concepts/design/casper-design.md#accounts-head) creation process consists of two steps:

1. Creating an Account
2. Funding the Account

The following video complements the instructions below, showing you the expected output.

<p align="center">
<iframe width="400" height="225" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed?v=sA1HTPjV_bc&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEqi5FP87EJZViE2aLz6X1Mj&index=3" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

### Creating an account {#creating-an-account}

The Casper blockchain uses an on-chain account-based model, uniquely identified by an `AccountHash` derived from a specific `PublicKey`.

By default, a transactional interaction with the blockchain takes the form of a `Deploy` cryptographically signed by the key-pair corresponding to the `PublicKey` used to create the account.

Users can create accounts using the [Casper command-line client](../concepts/accounts-and-keys.md#option-1-generating-keys-using-the-casper-client-option-1-key-generation-using-the-casper-client). 

Alternatively, some Casper networks, such as the official Testnet and Mainnet, provide a browser-based block explorer that allows account creation as outlined [here](../concepts/accounts-and-keys.md#option-2-generating-keys-using-a-block-explorer-option-2-key-generation-using-a-block-explorer). 

Use either method to generate an account and its corresponding cryptographic key-pair.

### Generating the account hash

As a developer, you will often use an account hash, which is a 32-byte hash of the public key. This is because responses from the node contain `AccountHashes` instead of the direct hexadecimal-encoded public key. To view the account hash for a public key, use the `account-address` option of the Casper CLI client:

```bash
casper-client account-address --public-key <path-to-public_key.pem/public-key-hex>
```

## Funding an Account {#fund-your-account}

After generating the cryptographic key-pair for an Account, you must fund the account's main purse to create it on-chain.

On Testnet, you can fund an account by requesting test tokens according to [this guide](../users/csprlive/testnet-faucet.md). You can request test tokens **only once** for each account.

On Mainnet, a pre-existing account must transfer CSPR tokens to the newly created account's main purse to finalize the setup. The source account needs to transfer CSPR tokens to the hexadecimal-encoded public key of the target account. This transfer will automatically create the target account if it does not exist. Currently, this is the only way to create an account on Mainnet.

## Acquiring a Node Address from the Network {#acquire-node-address-from-network-peers}

Clients can interact with a node on the blockchain via requests sent to that node's JSON-RPC endpoint, `http://<node-ip-address>:7777` by default.

The node address is the IP of a peer node.

Both the official Testnet and Mainnet provide block explorers that list the IP addresses of nodes on their respective networks.

You can get the `node-ip-address` of a node on the network by visiting the following block explorers:

* [Peers](https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/peers) on Testnet
* [Peers](https://cspr.live/tools/peers) on Mainnet

You will see a list of peers, and you can select the IP of any peer on the list.

**Note**: If the selected peer is unresponsive, pick a different peer and try again.

Commit message:

Update Discord URL
This needs to be done on casperlabs.io website.

https://discord.com/invite/casperblockchain

The above discord link must be used.

source/docs/casper/developers/prerequisites.md, after:

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Development Prerequisites

This page covers the necessary software for your Casper development environment. To develop comfortably, you should use `Linux Ubuntu 20.04` or `macOS`. Developing on Windows is not advised.


:::caution

Casper does not officially support `macOS`. If you encounter any problems, reach out to the community on [Telegram](https://t.me/casperblockchain) or [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/casperblockchain).

:::

## Preparing your Development Environment

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux">

### Installing `curl` {#install-curl}

```bash
sudo apt install curl
```

### Installing essential Linux packages {#install-essential}

```bash
sudo apt install build-essential
```

### Installing packages required for Casper tools {#install-adds}

```bash
sudo apt-get install pkg-config
sudo apt-get install openssl
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
```

### Installing `cargo` on Linux {#install-linux-cargo}

```bash
sudo apt install cargo
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS" label="macOS">

### Installing Xcode developer tools for macOS {#install-xcode}

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
xcode-select -p
```

### Installing `brew` {#install-brew}

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

### Installing packages required for Casper tools {#install-adds-macos}

```bash
brew install pkg-config
brew install openssl
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Installing Rust {#install-rust}

Install the [Rust programming language](https://www.rust-lang.org) if you don't already have it on your computer.

The [official Rust guide](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) recommends installing Rust by using `curl`:

```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

After your next login, the installation script automatically adds Rust to your system PATH. To start using Rust immediately, run the following command in your shell instead of restarting your terminal. The command will add Rust to your system PATH.

```bash
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
rustup --version
```

Note: You can also use `brew` on MacOS or `apt` on Linux to install Rust.

## Installing the Casper Crates {#installing-the-casper-crates}

The best and fastest way to set up a Casper Rust project is to use [cargo casper](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-casper), which is the command line tool for creating a Wasm smart contract and tests for use on a Casper network. This tool will create a simple contract, a runtime environment, and a testing framework with a simple test. _Cargo_ is a build system and package manager for Rust (much like _pip_ if you are familiar with Python, or _npm_ and _yarn_ for those familiar with Javascript). It is also possible to use this configuration in your CI/CD pipeline.

```bash
cargo install cargo-casper
```

If you run into any issues with this command and you have not recently installed Rust from scratch, please make sure to update your Rust version with this command:

```bash
rustup update
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
cargo-casper --version
```

:::note

Familiarize yourself with the essential Casper crates described [here](./essential-crates.md).

:::

## Installing the Casper Client {#install-casper-client}

The default Casper client is on [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/casper-client). This client can transmit your deploys to a Casper network.

```bash
cargo install casper-client
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
casper-client --version
```

The Casper client can print out help information, which provides an up-to-date list of supported commands. To do so, use the following command:

```bash
casper-client --help
```

You can use `help` for each command to get the most up-to-date arguments and descriptions.

```bash
casper-client <command> --help
```

### Accessing the Casper client source code {#building-client-from-source}

You can access the Casper client source code [here](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-client-rs). The `lib` directory contains the source for the client library, which may be called directly rather than through the CLI binary. The CLI app `casper-client` uses this library to implement its functionality.

If you wish to compile it, you will need to first install the nightly Rust toolchain with this command:

```bash
rustup toolchain install nightly
```

Then, compile the source code:

```bash
cargo build --release
```

You will find the `casper-client` executable in the `target/release` directory.

## Installing CMake {#install-cmake}

If you plan to compile contracts from the source code, including those provided in the [casper-node](https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node) repository, install `CMake` with the commands below.

[CMake](https://cmake.org/) is a popular build tool that we will use, and you may have it installed. If you do, make sure that you have the latest version. If you need to install or upgrade it, follow the steps below or on the [CMake website](https://cmake.org/install/). Once installed, check your version as shown below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux">

```bash
sudo apt-get -y install cmake
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS" label="macOS">

```bash
brew install cmake
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Check your version:

```bash
cmake --version
```

Sample output:

```bash
cmake version 3.20.0 (or above)

CMake suite maintained and supported by Kitware (kitware.com/cmake).
```

## Installing an IDE

We advise using an integrated development environment such as Visual Studio Code (VSC) for development. There are many IDEs available for Rust development. The most popular IDEs for Rust are the following:

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)
- [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/)
- [IntelliJ Idea](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/)
- [Vim](https://www.vim.org/)

You can use any IDE you wish. Most of our documentation and examples use Visual Studio Code (VSC), a popular IDE with many extensions that might be helpful during development.

If you are using VSC, you might find the following extensions useful:

- `CodeLLDB` – An important extension for debugging Rust code
- `rust-analyzer` – The official Rust language extension
- `Better TOML` – Support for formatting TOML files
- `crates` – An extension to help manage crates
- `Error Lens` – Enhances the programming experience by highlighting syntax errors

## Setting up a Casper Account {#setting-up-an-account}

The [Account](../concepts/design/casper-design.md#accounts-head) creation process consists of two steps:

1. Creating an Account
2. Funding the Account

The following video complements the instructions below, showing you the expected output.

<p align="center">
<iframe width="400" height="225" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed?v=sA1HTPjV_bc&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEqi5FP87EJZViE2aLz6X1Mj&index=3" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

### Creating an account {#creating-an-account}

The Casper blockchain uses an on-chain account-based model, uniquely identified by an `AccountHash` derived from a specific `PublicKey`.

By default, a transactional interaction with the blockchain takes the form of a `Deploy` cryptographically signed by the key-pair corresponding to the `PublicKey` used to create the account.

Users can create accounts using the [Casper command-line client](../concepts/accounts-and-keys.md#option-1-generating-keys-using-the-casper-client-option-1-key-generation-using-the-casper-client). 

Alternatively, some Casper networks, such as the official Testnet and Mainnet, provide a browser-based block explorer that allows account creation as outlined [here](../concepts/accounts-and-keys.md#option-2-generating-keys-using-a-block-explorer-option-2-key-generation-using-a-block-explorer). 

Use either method to generate an account and its corresponding cryptographic key-pair.

### Generating the account hash

As a developer, you will often use an account hash, which is a 32-byte hash of the public key. This is because responses from the node contain `AccountHashes` instead of the direct hexadecimal-encoded public key. To view the account hash for a public key, use the `account-address` option of the Casper CLI client:

```bash
casper-client account-address --public-key <path-to-public_key.pem/public-key-hex>
```

## Funding an Account {#fund-your-account}

After generating the cryptographic key-pair for an Account, you must fund the account's main purse to create it on-chain.

On Testnet, you can fund an account by requesting test tokens according to [this guide](../users/csprlive/testnet-faucet.md). You can request test tokens **only once** for each account.

On Mainnet, a pre-existing account must transfer CSPR tokens to the newly created account's main purse to finalize the setup. The source account needs to transfer CSPR tokens to the hexadecimal-encoded public key of the target account. This transfer will automatically create the target account if it does not exist. Currently, this is the only way to create an account on Mainnet.

## Acquiring a Node Address from the Network {#acquire-node-address-from-network-peers}

Clients can interact with a node on the blockchain via requests sent to that node's JSON-RPC endpoint, `http://<node-ip-address>:7777` by default.

The node address is the IP of a peer node.

Both the official Testnet and Mainnet provide block explorers that list the IP addresses of nodes on their respective networks.

You can get the `node-ip-address` of a node on the network by visiting the following block explorers:

* [Peers](https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/peers) on Testnet
* [Peers](https://cspr.live/tools/peers) on Mainnet

You will see a list of peers, and you can select the IP of any peer on the list.

**Note**: If the selected peer is unresponsive, pick a different peer and try again.
