source/docs/casper/resources/advanced/index.md, before:

---
slug: /resources/tutorials/advanced/
---

# Advanced Tutorials

| Title                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Two-Party Multi-Signature Deploys](./two-party-multi-sig.md) | A trivial two-party multi-signature scheme for signing and sending deploys |
| [Interacting with Runtime Return Values](./return-values-tutorial.md) | Contract code returning a value to the immediate caller via `runtime::ret()` |
| [Safely Transfer Tokens to a Contract](./transfer-token-to-contract.md) | Two methods to handle tokens via a contract |
| [Reading and Writing to Global State using Rust](./storage-workflow.md) | Methods to read and write data to global state on a Casper network using Rust |
| [Cross Contract Communication](./cross-contract.md) | Variations of cross-contract communication for more complex scenarios |

<!-- TODO fix the tutorial 
| [Listing CSPR on Your Exchange](./list-cspr.md) | How to list Casper token (CSPR) on a cryptocurrency exchange | -->

Commit message:

Add link to multi-sig tutorial on index page

source/docs/casper/resources/advanced/index.md, after:

---
slug: /resources/tutorials/advanced/
---

# Advanced Tutorials

| Title                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Two-Party Multi-Signature Deploys](./two-party-multi-sig.md) | A trivial two-party multi-signature scheme for signing and sending deploys |
| [Multi-Sig Management](./multi-sig/index.md)| Integrate key management on Casper accounts and sign deploys with multiple keys |
| [Interacting with Runtime Return Values](./return-values-tutorial.md) | Contract code returning a value to the immediate caller via `runtime::ret()` |
| [Safely Transfer Tokens to a Contract](./transfer-token-to-contract.md) | Two methods to handle tokens via a contract |
| [Reading and Writing to Global State using Rust](./storage-workflow.md) | Methods to read and write data to global state on a Casper network using Rust |
| [Cross Contract Communication](./cross-contract.md) | Variations of cross-contract communication for more complex scenarios |

<!-- TODO fix the tutorial 
| [Listing CSPR on Your Exchange](./list-cspr.md) | How to list Casper token (CSPR) on a cryptocurrency exchange | -->
