source/docs/casper/workflow/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
slug: /workflow
---

# How To's

## User Guides {#user-guides}

These user guides contain step-by-step instructions for interacting with the Casper blockchain.

-   [Staking guide](staking.md): a guide to staking your Casper tokens
-   [Ledger setup](ledger-setup.md): a guide to setting up your Ledger device
-   [Signer guide](signer-guide.md): a guide to help you navigate the Signer app

## Developer Guides {#developer-guides}

These developer guides highlight key features and capabilities of the Casper system.

-   [Prerequisites](setup.md): setup needed for various workflows
-   [Querying the Casper Network](querying.md): querying information on a Casper blockchain
-   [Account Hash](account-hash.md): generating account hash for an account on the Casper Network
-   [Direct Native Token Transfer](transfer-workflow.md): performing a direct transfer of CSPR tokens from one account to another
-   [Transferring Tokens using a Deploy file](deploy-transfer.md): transferring CSPR tokens from one account to another using a deploy file
-   [Two-Party Multi-Signatures for Deployment](two-party-multi-sig.md): setting up an account for two-party signature deploys
-   [Delegating Tokens](delegate.md): delegating tokens to a Validator on a Casper Network
-   [Un-delegating Tokens](undelegate.md): undelegating tokens from a validator on a Casper Network
-   [Using the ERC-20 Contract](erc-20-sample-guide/index.md): using the ERC-20 contract to understand the ERC-20 token transfer workflow

Commit message:

Index and config updates
Added token transfer guide to index and config files

source/docs/casper/workflow/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
slug: /workflow
---

# How To's

## User Guides {#user-guides}

These user guides contain step-by-step instructions for interacting with the Casper blockchain.

-   [Staking guide](staking.md): a guide to staking your Casper tokens
-   [Ledger setup](ledger-setup.md): a guide to setting up your Ledger device
-   [Signer guide](signer-guide.md): a guide to help you navigate the Signer app
-   [Token Transfer guide](token-transfer.md): a guide to help you transfer CSPR tokens on [Casper Testnet](https://testnet.cspr.live/)

## Developer Guides {#developer-guides}

These developer guides highlight key features and capabilities of the Casper system.

-   [Prerequisites](setup.md): setup needed for various workflows
-   [Querying the Casper Network](querying.md): querying information on a Casper blockchain
-   [Account Hash](account-hash.md): generating account hash for an account on the Casper Network
-   [Direct Native Token Transfer](transfer-workflow.md): performing a direct transfer of CSPR tokens from one account to another
-   [Transferring Tokens using a Deploy file](deploy-transfer.md): transferring CSPR tokens from one account to another using a deploy file
-   [Two-Party Multi-Signatures for Deployment](two-party-multi-sig.md): setting up an account for two-party signature deploys
-   [Delegating Tokens](delegate.md): delegating tokens to a Validator on a Casper Network
-   [Un-delegating Tokens](undelegate.md): undelegating tokens from a validator on a Casper Network
-   [Using the ERC-20 Contract](erc-20-sample-guide/index.md): using the ERC-20 contract to understand the ERC-20 token transfer workflow
