source/docs/casper/workflow/setup.md, before:

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Development Prerequisites

This section explains how to fulfill the prerequisites needed to interact with a Casper network.

This section covers:

1. Installing the official Casper command-line client
2. Setting up an account on a Casper Network
3. Acquiring the IP address of a peer on the official Testnet or Mainnet  

## Casper Command-line Client {#the-casper-command-line-client}

You can find the default Casper client on [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/casper-client). This client communicates with the network to transmit your deploys.

Run the commands below to install the Casper client on most flavors of Linux and macOS. You should have [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed, otherwise check the [alternative installation methods](#alternative-installation) below.

```bash
cargo install casper-client
```

The Casper client can print out _help_ information, which provides an up-to-date list of supported commands. To do so, use the following command:

```bash
casper-client --help
```

**Important**: For each command, you can use _help_ to get the most up-to-date arguments and descriptions.

```bash
casper-client <command> --help
```

### Alternative Installation Methods {#alternative-installation}

#### Debian / Ubuntu 

Navigate to <https://repo.casperlabs.io/> and follow the instructions compatible with your distribution.

#### Red Hat / CentOS 

Head to [GitHub](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-client-rs/releases) and download the `.rpm` file for the latest client release.

Run the following command by replacing the file's name with the one you downloaded.

```bash
sudo yum install casper-client-x-x-x*.rpm
```

In RHEL 5 and previous versions, you need to use the following command:

```bash
sudo yum localinstall casper-client-x-x-x*.rpm
```

On Fedora, RedHat 8, and other more recent RPM-based distributions, you can also use `dnf` to install packages:

```bash
sudo dnf install casper-client-x-x-x*.rpm
```


## Building the Client from Source {#building-the-client-from-source}

[Instructions]( https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node/tree/master/client)

## Setting up an Account {#setting-up-an-account}

The [Account](/design/casper-design.md/#accounts-head) creation process consists of two steps:

1. Creating the account
2. Funding the account

The following video complements the instructions below, showing you the expected output.

<p align="center">
<iframe width="400" height="225" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sA1HTPjV_bc&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEqi5FP87EJZViE2aLz6X1Mj&index=3" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

## Creating an Account {#creating-an-account}

The Casper blockchain uses an on-chain account-based model, uniquely identified by an `AccountHash` derived from a specific `PublicKey`.

By default, a transactional interaction with the blockchain takes the form of a `Deploy` cryptographically signed by the key-pair corresponding to the `PublicKey` used to create the account.

Users can create an account through the Casper command-line client. Alternatively, some Casper networks such as the official Testnet and Mainnet provide a browser-based block explorer that allows account creation. Using the Casper command-line client or a block explorer will also create a cryptographic key-pair.

### Option 1: Key generation using the Casper client {#option-1-key-generation-using-the-casper-client}

This option describes how you can use the Casper command-line client to set up your accounts. For more information about cryptographic keys, see [Working with Cryptographic Keys](/dapp-dev-guide/keys.md).

Execute the following command to generate your keys:

```bash
casper-client keygen .
```

The above command will create three files in the current working directory:

1. `secret_key.pem` - PEM encoded secret key
2. `public_key.pem` - PEM encoded public key
3. `public_key_hex` - Hexadecimal-encoded string of the public key

**Note**: Save your keys to a safe place, preferably offline.

After generating keys for the account, you may add funds to finish the account creation process.

**Note**: Responses from the node contain `AccountHashes` instead of the direct hexadecimal-encoded public key. To view the account hash for a public key, use the account-address option of the client:

```bash
casper-client account-address --public-key <path-to-public_key.pem/public-key-hex>
```

### Option 2: Key generation using a Block Explorer {#option-2-key-generation-using-a-block-explorer}

This option is available on networks that have a block explorer.

For instance, on the official Testnet network, the [CSPR.live](https://testnet.cspr.live/) block explorer is available, and the following instructions assume you are using it.

Start by creating an account using the [Casper Signer](../workflow/signer-guide.md). The Signer will prompt you to download the secret key of your new account by clicking on the `Download` option. The Signer will download the secret key in a file ending in `secret_key.cer`. We recommend securely storing this file. Note that the account is not stored on chain.

<img src={useBaseUrl("/image/workflow/download-prompt.png")} alt="Signer Secret Key Download Prompt" width="200" />

The Signer does not allow you to download the corresponding public key and hexadecimal representation of the public key. But, you can view them if you click the account details.

<img src={useBaseUrl("/image/workflow/account-details.png")} alt="Signer Account Details" width="200" class="inline-img" />

For [ed25519](/dapp-dev-guide/keys.md#eddsa-keys) keys, you can generate the `public_key.pem` and `public_key_hex` using [these commands](https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node/wiki/ed25519-public-keys-from-secret_key.pem).

## Fund your Account {#fund-your-account}

After generating the cryptographic key-pair for the account, you must then fund the account to create it on chain.

In Testnet, you can fund the account by using the **Request tokens** button on the [Faucet Page](https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/faucet) to receive tokens. 

:::note

You can request tokens **only once** from the faucet. If you need more tokens, you will need to use another account.

:::

In Mainnet, a pre-existing account will have to transfer CSPR tokens to finalize the process of setting up an account. The _Source_ account needs to transfer CSPR tokens to the hexadecimal-encoded public key of the _Target_ account. This transfer will automatically create the _Target_ account if it does not exist. Currently, this is the only way to create an account on Mainnet.

## Acquiring a Node Address from the Network {#acquire-node-address-from-network-peers}

Clients can interact with a node on the blockchain via requests sent to that node's JSON-RPC endpoint, `http://<node-ip-address>:7777` by default.

The node address is the IP of a peer node.

Both the official Testnet and Mainnet provide block explorers that list the IP addresses of nodes on their respective networks.

You can get the `node-ip-address` of a node on the network by visiting the following block explorers:

* [Peers](https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/peers) on Testnet
* [Peers](https://cspr.live/tools/peers) on Mainnet

You will see a list of peers, and you can select the IP of any peer on the list.

**Note**: If the selected peer is unresponsive, pick a different peer and try again.

Commit message:

Move details to the testnet-faucet page

source/docs/casper/workflow/setup.md, after:

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Development Prerequisites

This section explains how to fulfill the prerequisites needed to interact with a Casper network.

This section covers:

1. Installing the official Casper command-line client
2. Setting up an account on a Casper Network
3. Acquiring the IP address of a peer on the official Testnet or Mainnet  

## Casper Command-line Client {#the-casper-command-line-client}

You can find the default Casper client on [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/casper-client). This client communicates with the network to transmit your deploys.

Run the commands below to install the Casper client on most flavors of Linux and macOS. You should have [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed, otherwise check the [alternative installation methods](#alternative-installation) below.

```bash
cargo install casper-client
```

The Casper client can print out _help_ information, which provides an up-to-date list of supported commands. To do so, use the following command:

```bash
casper-client --help
```

**Important**: For each command, you can use _help_ to get the most up-to-date arguments and descriptions.

```bash
casper-client <command> --help
```

### Alternative Installation Methods {#alternative-installation}

#### Debian / Ubuntu 

Navigate to <https://repo.casperlabs.io/> and follow the instructions compatible with your distribution.

#### Red Hat / CentOS 

Head to [GitHub](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-client-rs/releases) and download the `.rpm` file for the latest client release.

Run the following command by replacing the file's name with the one you downloaded.

```bash
sudo yum install casper-client-x-x-x*.rpm
```

In RHEL 5 and previous versions, you need to use the following command:

```bash
sudo yum localinstall casper-client-x-x-x*.rpm
```

On Fedora, RedHat 8, and other more recent RPM-based distributions, you can also use `dnf` to install packages:

```bash
sudo dnf install casper-client-x-x-x*.rpm
```


## Building the Client from Source {#building-the-client-from-source}

[Instructions]( https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node/tree/master/client)

## Setting up an Account {#setting-up-an-account}

The [Account](/design/casper-design.md/#accounts-head) creation process consists of two steps:

1. Creating the account
2. Funding the account

The following video complements the instructions below, showing you the expected output.

<p align="center">
<iframe width="400" height="225" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sA1HTPjV_bc&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEqi5FP87EJZViE2aLz6X1Mj&index=3" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

## Creating an Account {#creating-an-account}

The Casper blockchain uses an on-chain account-based model, uniquely identified by an `AccountHash` derived from a specific `PublicKey`.

By default, a transactional interaction with the blockchain takes the form of a `Deploy` cryptographically signed by the key-pair corresponding to the `PublicKey` used to create the account.

Users can create an account through the Casper command-line client. Alternatively, some Casper networks such as the official Testnet and Mainnet provide a browser-based block explorer that allows account creation. Using the Casper command-line client or a block explorer will also create a cryptographic key-pair.

### Option 1: Key generation using the Casper client {#option-1-key-generation-using-the-casper-client}

This option describes how you can use the Casper command-line client to set up your accounts. For more information about cryptographic keys, see [Working with Cryptographic Keys](/dapp-dev-guide/keys.md).

Execute the following command to generate your keys:

```bash
casper-client keygen .
```

The above command will create three files in the current working directory:

1. `secret_key.pem` - PEM encoded secret key
2. `public_key.pem` - PEM encoded public key
3. `public_key_hex` - Hexadecimal-encoded string of the public key

**Note**: Save your keys to a safe place, preferably offline.

After generating keys for the account, you may add funds to finish the account creation process.

**Note**: Responses from the node contain `AccountHashes` instead of the direct hexadecimal-encoded public key. To view the account hash for a public key, use the account-address option of the client:

```bash
casper-client account-address --public-key <path-to-public_key.pem/public-key-hex>
```

### Option 2: Key generation using a Block Explorer {#option-2-key-generation-using-a-block-explorer}

This option is available on networks that have a block explorer.

For instance, on the official Testnet network, the [CSPR.live](https://testnet.cspr.live/) block explorer is available, and the following instructions assume you are using it.

Start by creating an account using the [Casper Signer](../workflow/signer-guide.md). The Signer will prompt you to download the secret key of your new account by clicking on the `Download` option. The Signer will download the secret key in a file ending in `secret_key.cer`. We recommend securely storing this file. Note that the account is not stored on chain.

<img src={useBaseUrl("/image/workflow/download-prompt.png")} alt="Signer Secret Key Download Prompt" width="200" />

The Signer does not allow you to download the corresponding public key and hexadecimal representation of the public key. But, you can view them if you click the account details.

<img src={useBaseUrl("/image/workflow/account-details.png")} alt="Signer Account Details" width="200" class="inline-img" />

For [ed25519](/dapp-dev-guide/keys.md#eddsa-keys) keys, you can generate the `public_key.pem` and `public_key_hex` using [these commands](https://github.com/casper-network/casper-node/wiki/ed25519-public-keys-from-secret_key.pem).

## Funding Accounts {#fund-your-account}

After generating the cryptographic key-pair for an account, you must fund the account to create it on-chain.

On Testnet, you can fund an account by requesting test tokens according to [this guide](/workflow/testnet-faucet/). You can request test tokens **only once** for each account.

On Mainnet, a pre-existing account will have to transfer CSPR tokens to finalize the setup of the new account. The source account needs to transfer CSPR tokens to the hexadecimal-encoded public key of the target account. This transfer will automatically create the target account if it does not exist. Currently, this is the only way to create an account on Mainnet.

## Acquiring a Node Address from the Network {#acquire-node-address-from-network-peers}

Clients can interact with a node on the blockchain via requests sent to that node's JSON-RPC endpoint, `http://<node-ip-address>:7777` by default.

The node address is the IP of a peer node.

Both the official Testnet and Mainnet provide block explorers that list the IP addresses of nodes on their respective networks.

You can get the `node-ip-address` of a node on the network by visiting the following block explorers:

* [Peers](https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/peers) on Testnet
* [Peers](https://cspr.live/tools/peers) on Mainnet

You will see a list of peers, and you can select the IP of any peer on the list.

**Note**: If the selected peer is unresponsive, pick a different peer and try again.
