source/docs/casper/resources/index.md, before:

# Resources Overview

## Building on Casper

| Topic                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Wallets and Block Explorers](./build-on-casper.md#wallets) | Wallets that support the native Casper token $CSPR |
| [WebAssembly](./build-on-casper.md#developer-friendly-language) | Learn why WebAssembly is an advantage in contract development |
| [Accounts](./build-on-casper.md#powerful-accounts) | The Casper account-model allowing for multi-signature deploys |
| [Developer tools](./build-on-casper.md#development-tools) | Available development tools |
| [Ecosystem Projects](./casper-open-source-software.md) | Explore some open-source code available in the Casper ecosystem |

## Move to Casper

## Tutorials

| Topic                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Quickstart](./quick-start.md) | Install Rust and setup a Casper environment  |
| [Beginner](./beginner/index.md) | Learn the basics, such as installing and upgrading contracts |
| [Advanced](./advanced/index.md) | Learn about multi-sig, authorization keys, exchange integration, and storage |

Commit message:

1176 - Migrate from other chains - table correction

source/docs/casper/resources/index.md, after:

# Resources Overview

## Building on Casper

| Topic                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Wallets and Block Explorers](./build-on-casper.md#wallets) | Wallets that support the native Casper token $CSPR |
| [WebAssembly](./build-on-casper.md#developer-friendly-language) | Learn why WebAssembly is an advantage in contract development |
| [Accounts](./build-on-casper.md#powerful-accounts) | The Casper account-model allowing for multi-signature deploys |
| [Developer tools](./build-on-casper.md#development-tools) | Available development tools |
| [Ecosystem Projects](./casper-open-source-software.md) | Explore some open-source code available in the Casper ecosystem |

## Move to Casper

| Topic                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Move to Casper](./moving-to-casper.md) | Learn how to start working with Casper, having previous knowledge of other blockchains |

## Tutorials

| Topic                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Quickstart](./quick-start.md) | Install Rust and setup a Casper environment  |
| [Beginner](./beginner/index.md) | Learn the basics, such as installing and upgrading contracts |
| [Advanced](./advanced/index.md) | Learn about multi-sig, authorization keys, exchange integration, and storage |
