source/docs/casper/dapp-dev-guide/tutorials/multi-sig/index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
slug: /multi-sig
---

# Multi-Signature Tutorial

In this tutorial, you will learn to use [Casper's permissions model](/design/accounts.md#permissions-model) to sign transactions with multiple keys. The code for this tutorial is available in [GitHub](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/keys-manager). The sample code creates a smart contract and a sample client that invokes the multi-signature feature on a local Casper network.

- [Account Management Concepts](concepts.md)
- [Smart Contract Example](contract.md)
- [Client Example](client.md)
- [Additional Scenarios](additional.md)

<!-- The videos need to be updated. Add this back once we upload the new videos. 
## Video Tutorials {#video-tutorials}

If you prefer a video walkthrough of this guide, you can check out the videos below.

**Account management and contract setup**

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed?v=u7Zg6--Adn4&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEogSV-M0IPiofWP5I_dLji6&index=4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Local network testing with a JavaScript client**

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed?v=URCd4bwenLU&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEogSV-M0IPiofWP5I_dLji6&index=5" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
-->

Commit message:

Hiding the multi-sig tutorial

source/docs/casper/dapp-dev-guide/tutorials/multi-sig/index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
slug: /multi-sig
---

# Multi-Signature Tutorial

Coming soon!

<!-- TODO The videos and the tutorial need to be updated. Keeping the content in the repository for now and commenting it out so that it doesn't show up in search results.

In this tutorial, you will learn to use [Casper's permissions model](/design/accounts.md#permissions-model) to sign transactions with multiple keys. The code for this tutorial is available in [GitHub](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/keys-manager). The sample code creates a smart contract and a sample client that invokes the multi-signature feature on a local Casper network.

- [Account Management Concepts](concepts.md)
- [Smart Contract Example](contract.md)
- [Client Example](client.md)
- [Additional Scenarios](additional.md)

## Video Tutorials {#video-tutorials}

If you prefer a video walkthrough of this guide, you can check out the videos below.

**Account management and contract setup**

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed?v=u7Zg6--Adn4&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEogSV-M0IPiofWP5I_dLji6&index=4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Local network testing with a JavaScript client**

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed?v=URCd4bwenLU&list=PL8oWxbJ-csEogSV-M0IPiofWP5I_dLji6&index=5" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
-->
