source/docs/casper/dapp-dev-guide/tutorials/index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
slug: /tutorials
---

# Tutorials

The following tutorials present several Casper features in depth:

| Title                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ERC-20 implementation](erc20/index.md)                     | Implement the ERC-20 standard for Casper                  |
| [Key-value storage with Casper DSL](kv-storage-tutorial.md) | Design a simple contract to store a value and use the Casper DSL      |
| [Multi-signatures and key recovery](multi-sig/index.md)     | Learn to sign transactions with multiple keys                    |
| [Smart contract upgrades](upgrade-tutorial.md)              | Learn how to upgrade smart contracts  
| [Casper Signer dApp integration](./dapp-dev-guide/tutorials/casper-signer)        |  Learn to use the Casper Signer to connect a wallet to your website  |

Commit message:

307 New version of Return Values Tutorial

source/docs/casper/dapp-dev-guide/tutorials/index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
slug: /tutorials
---

# Tutorials

The following tutorials present several Casper features in depth:

| Title                                                       | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
|[CEP-47 Tutorial](cep47/index.md)                            | Implementing the CEP-47 Casper NFT standard                      |
|[Counter Contract Tutorial](counter/index.md)                | A simple example contract that maintains a counter variable      |
|[ERC-20 Implementation](erc20/index.md)                      | Implement the ERC-20 standard for Casper                         |
|[Key-Value Storage with Casper DSL](kv-storage-tutorial.md)  | Design a simple contract to store a value and use the Casper DSL |
|[Multi-Signatures and Key Recovery](multi-sig/index.md)      | Learn to sign transactions with multiple keys                    |
|[Interacting with Runtime Return Values](return-values-tutorial.md)| Learning how to return a value using contract code         |
|[Safely Transfer Tokens to a Contract](transfer-token-to-contract.md) | How to handle tokens via a contract                     |
|[Smart Contract Upgrades](upgrade-tutorial.md)               | Learn how to upgrade smart contracts                             |
