source/docs/casper/operators/table-of-contents.md, before:

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Table of Contents

- Getting Set Up
  - [Recommended Hardware Specifications](./setup/hardware.md): system requirements for the Casper Mainnet and Testnet
  - [Basic Node Configuration](./setup/basic-node-configuration.md): processes and files involved in setting up a Casper node
  - [Installing a Node](./setup/install-node.md): step-by-step instructions to install a Casper node
  - [Upgrading the Node](./setup/upgrade.md): before joining the network, the node needs to be upgraded
  - [Joining a Running Network](./setup/joining.md): steps to join an existing Casper network
- Becoming A Validator
  - [Bonding as a Validator](./becoming-a-validator/bonding.md): a guide about the bonding process and submitting a bid
  - [Unbonding as a Validator](./becoming-a-validator/unbonding.md): the process to withdraw a bid and unbonding
- Setting Up A Network
  - [Setting up a Network](./setup-network/chain-spec.md): the basics for creating a new network
  - [Set Up a Private Casper Network](./setup-network/create-private.md): a step-by-step guide to establishing and configuring a private Casper network
  - [Staging Files for a New Network](./setup-network/staging-files-for-new-network.md): a guide to hosting protocol files for a new Casper network

Commit message:

Corrected description for chain-spec.md

source/docs/casper/operators/table-of-contents.md, after:

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Table of Contents

- Getting Set Up
  - [Recommended Hardware Specifications](./setup/hardware.md): system requirements for the Casper Mainnet and Testnet
  - [Basic Node Configuration](./setup/basic-node-configuration.md): processes and files involved in setting up a Casper node
  - [Installing a Node](./setup/install-node.md): step-by-step instructions to install a Casper node
  - [Upgrading the Node](./setup/upgrade.md): before joining the network, the node needs to be upgraded
  - [Joining a Running Network](./setup/joining.md): steps to join an existing Casper network
- Becoming A Validator
  - [Bonding as a Validator](./becoming-a-validator/bonding.md): a guide about the bonding process and submitting a bid
  - [Unbonding as a Validator](./becoming-a-validator/unbonding.md): the process to withdraw a bid and unbonding
- Setting Up A Network
  - [The Chain Specification](./setup-network/chain-spec.md): files needed to create a genesis block
  - [Set Up a Private Casper Network](./setup-network/create-private.md): a step-by-step guide to establishing and configuring a private Casper network
  - [Staging Files for a New Network](./setup-network/staging-files-for-new-network.md): a guide to hosting protocol files for a new Casper network
