source/docs/casper/users/testnet-faucet.md, before:

# Funding Testnet Accounts

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The Casper Testnet is an alternate Casper blockchain that enables testing applications without spending CSPR on the Mainnet. The Testnet is deployed independently from the Mainnet for users to experiment with network features such as transferring, delegating, and undelegating tokens. One way to access the Casper Testnet is to use the [cspr.live](https://testnet.cspr.live/) block explorer. 

Testnet tokens are independent of the Casper token (CSPR). While test tokens do not have any monetary value, they possess the same functionality as the CSPR token within the confines of the Testnet. Users can fund Testnet accounts as outlined below. 

### Requesting Testnet Tokens 

To request test tokens, follow these steps:

1. Sign-in into the Casper Testnet with the Signer. For detailed instructions, see the [Signer Guide](https://docs.cspr.community/docs/user-guides/SignerGuide.html). 
2. Click **Tools** on the top menu bar and select **Faucet** from the drop-down menu. Or, navigate to the Faucet using this link: https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/faucet.
3. Click **Request tokens** on the Faucet page. Tokens can be requested **only once** from the faucet.

    <img src={useBaseUrl("/image/workflow/faucet-function.png")} width="500" />

4. The Testnet will credit your account with test tokens.

Commit message:

Replacing the Casper Signer with the Casper Wallet

source/docs/casper/users/testnet-faucet.md, after:

# Funding Testnet Accounts

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The Casper Testnet is an alternate Casper blockchain that enables testing applications without spending CSPR on the Mainnet. The Testnet is deployed independently from the Mainnet for users to experiment with network features such as transferring, delegating, and undelegating tokens. One way to access the Casper Testnet is to use the [cspr.live](https://testnet.cspr.live/) block explorer. 

Testnet tokens are independent of the Casper token (CSPR). While test tokens do not have any monetary value, they possess the same functionality as the CSPR token within the confines of the Testnet. Users can fund Testnet accounts as outlined below. 

### Requesting Testnet Tokens 

To request test tokens, follow these steps:

1. Log into the Casper Testnet with the [Casper Wallet](https://www.casperwallet.io/). See the [Getting Started](https://www.casperwallet.io/user-guide/getting-started) user guide for detailed instructions.
2. Click **Tools** on the top menu bar and select **Faucet** from the drop-down menu. Or, navigate to the Faucet using this link: https://testnet.cspr.live/tools/faucet.
3. Click **Request tokens** on the Faucet page. Tokens can be requested **only once** from the faucet.

    <img src={useBaseUrl("/image/workflow/faucet-function.png")} width="500" />

4. The Testnet will credit your account with test tokens.
